payments docs added (#377)
corda/corda-docs: content/en/docs/apps/payments/modulr-payment-rail.md

---
date: '2020-01-08T09:59:25Z'
menu:
  apps:
    parent: "payments"
    identifier: modulr-payment-rail
tags:
- Payments
- Payments SDK
title: Modulr Payment Rail Alpha
weight: 200
---
# Modulr Payments Rail Alpha

Modulr is a payments-as-a-service platform which automates payment flows through one API. You can use the Modulr Payments Rail CorDapp, along with [Payments-core](payments-core-cordapp) to make payments using Modulr as a Payment Service Provider (PSP).

{{< warning >}}
This version of the Modulr Payments Rail is fully operational, but is at a very early stage in its development. If you are interested in using this solution at a commercial scale, contact a Corda specialist to explore how the development of this feature is set to accelerate and change in future versions.
{{< /warning >}}

## How this works with the Payments-core CorDapp

> This payment rail uses the Payments-core CorDapp to make payments and retrieve payment data.

Author: ```suggestion
This payment rail uses the [Payments-core CorDapp](payments-core-cordapp) to make payments and retrieve payment data.
```

A typical payment looks like this:  

> 1. The Modulr payments CorDapp connects to the Modulr API.

Reviewer: There is a bit of inconsistency across the docs regarding the name of this. For example, we call the Payments-core a CorDapp here and there but not in all mentions, and we don't call the Modulr variant a CorDapp in its full naming, even in these first two bulleted lists it might be misleading as the first mention is "The Modulr payments CorDapp" and the second one is "The Modulr CorDapp" (unless the latter is a different CorDapp?). 
We all the Modulr app a solution above (and in the index), and a CorDapp here. Further below there is a mention of "Modulr payments rail". 

All these mentions should be made consistent across all pages.

2. The Modulr CorDapp extracts the necessary information from the provided ISO20022 formatted message and constructs a JSON payload as specified by Modulr.

3. The ISO 20022 payload sent to Modulr is stored.

> 4. The Modulr payments CorDapp sends an HTTP request containing the specified payment initiation payload to the Modulr API. Modulr provides different environment URLs which we specify in the node's configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
4. The Modulr Payment Rail CorDapp sends an HTTP request containing the specified payment initiation payload to the Modulr API. Modulr provides different environment URLs which we specify in the node's configuration.
```

> 5. The modulr-payments-cordapp waits for a response from the Modulr API.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't wait, it polls.  It polls the status of the payment and returns when it is in a final state of PROCESSED or CANCELLED.

> 5. The Modulr payments CorDapp polls the status of the payment through the Modulr API until Modulr returns a final state of PROCESSED or CANCELLED.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. The Modulr payments CorDapp polls the status of the payment through the Modulr API until Modulr returns a final state of either `PROCESSED` or `CANCELLED`.
```

6. The response received from the Modulr API is converted from JSON to the equivalent ISO XML message.

## Project structure

> Use this documentation to explore the `modulr-rail` module. You should also be familiar with the Payments-core CorDapp before using this rail.

Reviewer: add link to the -core page

> Use this documentation to explore the `modulr-rail` module. You should also be familiar with the Payments-core CorDapp before using this rail.

Author: ```suggestion
Use this documentation to explore the `modulr-rail` module. You should also be familiar with the [Payments-core CorDapp](payments-core-cordapp) before using this rail.
```

In the Modulr payments rail main submodule, there are two packages:

* Client - which contains the `ModulrClient` class - a proxy to the Modulr API.
* Rail - which contains sub-projects with the actions, flows, and services required to make payments from a Corda node via the Modulr PSP.

> ### Client Module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Client module
```

> The `com.r3.payments.modulr.client` package contains the `ModulrClient` class, a wrapper class which acts as a proxy to the Modulr API.  The `client` obtains data from the Modulr API via HTTP calls to REST endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `com.r3.payments.modulr.client` package contains the `ModulrClient` class, a wrapper class which acts as a proxy to the Modulr API. The `client` obtains data from the Modulr API via HTTP calls to REST endpoints.
```

This package contains Java Object representations of JSON entities which may be serialized to JSON to be sent via HTTP to the Modulr API.  

Additionally, there are `Utils` and `Exceptions` classes as well as a class for the Modulr API REST paths.

### Rail

Rail contains two subprojects:

> * `actions`

Author: ```suggestion
* `actions`.
```

* `flows`.  

It also contains classes for:

* `Utils`.
* `Exceptions`.
* A `CordaService` called `ModulrService`.  

> ### ModulrService

Author: This is a notable part of the project structure.

> `ModulrService`, an implementation of `PaymentRailServiceInterface` from [Payments-core CorDapp](payments-core-cordapp), provides access to a `ModulrClient` that will be shared across flows -- executing actions that require interaction with the Modulr API.  This abstraction provides a safe and resource efficient way for a Corda node to communicate with the Modulr API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ModulrService`, an implementation of `PaymentRailServiceInterface` from [Payments-core CorDapp](payments-core-cordapp), provides access to a `ModulrClient` that will be shared across flows - executing actions that require interaction with the Modulr API. This abstraction provides a safe and resource-efficient way for a Corda node to communicate with the Modulr API.
```

This service is initialized during node startup with environment variables retrieved through the configuration of the `payments-core` CorDapp. This includes generic information concerning the amount and currency types in which payments may be made using this rail, as well as specific information required for communicating with the Modulr API - including the API key and API secret.

## Actions

> Learn more about `Actions`/`IdempotentAction` and `external-action-manager` here: (link to external action manager section in `payments-core CorDapp`)

Reviewer: Seems to be a missing link here as per the text in brackets?

> Learn more about `Actions`/`IdempotentAction` and `external-action-manager` here: (link to external action manager section in `payments-core CorDapp`)

Author: ```suggestion
Learn more about `Actions`/`IdempotentAction` and `external-action-manager` in the [Payments-core documentation](payments-core-cordapp). 
```

> The actions package contains idempotent and non-idempotent actions to communicate with the Modulr API using the `ModulrClient`.  The following is a list of all the classes that contain actions used in this CorDapp followed by the abstract class which is extended. `external-action-manger`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actions package contains idempotent and non-idempotent actions to communicate with the Modulr API using the `ModulrClient`. The following is a list of all the classes that contain actions used in this CorDapp followed by the abstract class which is extended `external-action-manager`.
```

Reviewer: Please check the suggestions above - the name of the class and whether this is what you meant to write

`ModulrAccountActions`
- `GetModulrAccounts` extends `Action`
- `CreateModulrAccountByCustomer` extends `IdempotentAction`

`ModulrCustomerActions`
- `GetModulrCustomers` extends `Action`

`ModulrPaymentAction`
- `InitiateModulrPayment` extends `IdempotentAction`
- `GetModulrPaymentByDeduplicationId` extends `Action`
- `GetModulrPaymentByID` extends `Action`

## Flows

> The flows package contains flows that allow a node to send a payment to another node, an external destination (not a corda node), and a flow to retrieve the status of a payment --  all using the Modulr API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The flows package contains flows that allow a node to send a payment to another node, an external destination (not a Corda node), and a flow to retrieve the status of a payment - all using the Modulr API.
```

> Respective flows trigger an action which in turn communicate with the Modulr API through the `ModulrClient`.  The following is a list of flows used by modulr-rails-cordapp.

Reviewer: Update "modulr-rails-cordapp" to the correct term

{{< note >}}

> These are not to be used directly by the developer, they are only accessible through the payments-core CorDapp.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are not to be used directly by the developer, they are only accessible through the Payments-core CorDapp.  
```

Reviewer: Also perhaps add a link here

{{< /note >}}

### ModulrISOPaymentFlow

> Makes a payment using the Modulr api and client to a destination not represented by a corda node.This flow executes an `InitiateModulrPayment` after constructing a `PaymentInitiationPayload` from a received `isoMessage`. It will then continue to poll for the results of the initiated payment and return the payment entity once it has been processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Makes a payment using the Modulr API and client to a destination not represented by a Corda node. This flow executes an `InitiateModulrPayment` after constructing a `PaymentInitiationPayload` from a received `isoMessage`. It will then continue to poll for the results of the initiated payment and return the payment entity once it has been processed.
```

#### Parameters

> * `isoMessage` - A XML message formatted in ISO20022.

Reviewer: My personal preference is to use : instead of - in these structures but I guess this is something we need to agree on in the team for the style guide recommendation.

* `clientDeduplicationId` - An ID submitted by the invoking client for the purposes of deduplication.

#### Return type

* `String` - This flow will return a `String` representing an ISO20022 status report message regarding the Modulr payment.

### ModulrPaymentInitiationFlow

> This flow initiates a payment using the Modulr payment rail.  It will construct and execute an `InitiateModulrPayment` action using the provided `Destination` to create a modulr specific `PaymentInitiationPayload` as required input.

Reviewer: A note on term consistency - is it "payment rail" or "payments rail"? Both are used in these pages.

> This flow initiates a payment using the Modulr payment rail.  It will construct and execute an `InitiateModulrPayment` action using the provided `Destination` to create a modulr specific `PaymentInitiationPayload` as required input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This flow initiates a payment using the Modulr payment rail.  It will construct and execute an `InitiateModulrPayment` action using the provided `Destination` to create a Modulr-specific `PaymentInitiationPayload` as required input.
```

#### Parameters

* `paymentAmount` - The amount of the payment to be initiated, denominated in a specific currency.
* `destination` - Information surrounds the destination (beneficiary) of the payment.
* `clientDeduplicationId` - An ID submitted by the invoking client for the purposes of deduplication.

#### Return Type

* `PaymentResult<ModulrPaymentEntity>` - This flow will return a `PaymentResult` object with type argument `ModulrPaymentEntity`, representing the result of running a `ModulrPaymentPollingFlow` as a subflow.

#### Exceptions

> * `PaymentExecutionException` - This exception will be thrown if the currency specified is not `GBP`.

Reviewer 2: A new payment type was recently added. It now accepts GBP and EUR.

> * `PaymentExecutionException` - This exception will be thrown if the currency specified is not `GBP`.

Reviewer 2: A new payment type was added recently.  It now accepts GBP and EUR.

> * `PaymentExecutionException` - This exception will be thrown if the currency specified is not `GBP`.

Author: ```suggestion
* `PaymentExecutionException` - This exception will be thrown if the currency specified is not one of the two accepted currencies: `GBP` or `EUR`.
```

* `IdempotentActionExecutionException` - This exception will be thrown if the action triggered to initiate a Modulr payment is unsuccesful.
* `ModulrPaymentExecutionException` - This exception is thrown if no other exceptions are thrown and the initiated Modulr payment is still unsuccesful.

### ModulrISOGetAccountFlow

This flow gets the account balance for the specified account.

#### Parameters

* `isoMessage` - A XML message formatted in ISO20022.

#### Return type

* `String` - This flow will return a XML `String` representing the balance of the specified account.

### ModulrPaymentPollingFlow

This flow executes a `GetModulrPaymentByID` action and is used as a subflow by several other initiating flows to determine when a specific Modulr payment has been successfully processed.

#### Parameters

> * `paymentId` - The ID of the payment that has been submitted for processing by the Modulr payment rail

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `paymentId` - The ID of the payment that has been submitted for processing by the Modulr payments rail.
```

Please follow these instructions carefully as this is an experimental web application, and you may encounter bugs:

### Set up the demo

To set up a demo payment with  UI:

1. Open the project in IntelliJ and then open the Gradle tab on the right side of the window.
2. Open a terminal and navigate to the root of `payments-cordapp`.
3. Run `./gradlew clean deployNodes` to deploy the two nodes.
4. Run `build/nodes/runnodes`.  The following nodes should have started `Party A` and `Party B`  If the nodes don't start properly, you can manually run the `jar` for each node, located within the `build` directory.
5. Open two new terminal tabs (make sure you are in the root of `payments-cordapp`).  Run `./gradlew runPartyA` in one tab and `./gradlew runPartyB` in the other.  These commands will start the server for the frontend.
6. In a new terminal window, navigate to `payments-cordap/modulr-rail-frontend`.
7. Run `npm install -l` to install all npm dependencies
8. Run `npm start` to start the frontend server.

### Use the demo console

The frontend currently allows you to do two things:

* Make a payment.
* Get the status of a payment status.

> You must log in as a Party to make a payment or get the status of a payment.  After logging in, you must make a payment before using GetPayment. The payment will take 1.9 minutes, almost exactly. The only supported currency is EUR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must log in as a Party to make a payment or get the status of a payment.  After logging in, you must make a payment before using `GetPayment`. The payment will take 1.9 minutes, almost exactly. The only supported currency is EUR.
```

To use the console to make a payment:

1. Open [http://localhost:4006](http://localhost:4006) to view it in the browser.

2. Log in as either Party A or Party B.

3. Make a payment with the provided fields.
The result of the payment will be seen: A XML payload representing a payment status report.

You can now use the value of `<MsgId>` (a field in the XML payload) to get the status of the payment with `GetPayment`.

> ## Creating and Installing the CorDapp Jar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating and installing the CorDapp `.jar` file
```

> Once your dependencies are set correctly, you can build your CorDapp JAR(s) using the Gradle jar task

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once your dependencies are set correctly, you can build your CorDapp `.jar` file(s) using the Gradle `jar` task
```

Unix/Mac OSX: `./gradlew jar`

Windows: `gradlew.bat jar`

> Each of the project’s modules will be compiled into its own CorDapp JAR. You can find these CorDapp JARs in the build/libs folders of each of the project’s modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of the project’s modules will be compiled into its own CorDapp `.jar` file. You can find these CorDapp `.jar` files in the `build/libs` folders of each of the project’s modules.
```

{{< note >}}

> The hash of the generated CorDapp JAR is not deterministic, as it depends on variables such as the timestamp at creation. Nodes running the same CorDapp must therefore ensure they are using the exact same CorDapp JAR, and not different versions of the JAR created from identical sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hash of the generated CorDapp `.jar` file is not deterministic, as it depends on variables such as the timestamp at creation. Nodes running the same CorDapp must therefore ensure they are using the exact same CorDapp `.jar` file, and not different versions of the `.jar` file created from identical sources.
```

> The filename of the JAR must include a unique identifier to deduplicate it from other releases of the same CorDapp. This is typically done by appending the version string to the CorDapp’s name. This unique identifier should not change once the JAR has been deployed on a node. If it does, make sure no one is relying on FlowContext.appName in their flows (see Versioning).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file name of the `.jar` file must include a unique identifier to deduplicate it from other releases of the same CorDapp. This is typically done by appending the version string to the CorDapp’s name. This unique identifier should not change once the `.jar` file has been deployed on a node. If it does change, make sure no one is relying on `FlowContext.appName` in their flows (see Versioning).
```

Reviewer: Add a link to Versioning (in the OS doc set)

{{< /note >}}

> At start-up, nodes will load any CorDapps present in their cordapps folder. In order to install a CorDapp on a node, the CorDapp JAR must be added to the <node_dir>/cordapps/ folder (where node_dir is the folder in which the node’s JAR and configuration files are stored) and the node restarted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At start-up, nodes will load any CorDapps present in their `cordapps` folder. In order to install a CorDapp on a node, the CorDapp `.jar` file must be added to the `<node_dir>/cordapps/` folder (where `node_dir` is the folder in which the node’s `.jar` file and configuration files are stored) and the node must be restarted.
```

This service is initialized during node startup with environment variables retrieved through the configuration of the `payments-core` CorDapp. This includes generic information concerning the amount and currency types in which payments may be made using this rail, as well as specific information required for communicating with the Modulr API - including the API key and API secret.

## Actions

Learn more about `Actions`/`IdempotentAction` and `external-action-manager` in the [Payments-core documentation](payments-core-cordapp).

The actions package contains idempotent and non-idempotent actions to communicate with the Modulr API using the `ModulrClient`. The following is a list of all the classes that contain actions used in this CorDapp followed by the abstract class which is extended:

`external-action-manager`.

`ModulrAccountActions`

> - `GetModulrAccounts` extends `Action`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `GetModulrAccounts` extends `Action`.
```

> - `CreateModulrAccountByCustomer` extends `IdempotentAction`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `CreateModulrAccountByCustomer` extends `IdempotentAction`.
```

`ModulrCustomerActions`

> - `GetModulrCustomers` extends `Action`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `GetModulrCustomers` extends `Action`.
```

`ModulrPaymentAction`

> - `InitiateModulrPayment` extends `IdempotentAction`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `InitiateModulrPayment` extends `IdempotentAction`.
```

> - `GetModulrPaymentByDeduplicationId` extends `Action`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `GetModulrPaymentByDeduplicationId` extends `Action`.
```

> - `GetModulrPaymentByID` extends `Action`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `GetModulrPaymentByID` extends `Action`.
```

{{< /note >}}

### ModulrISOPaymentFlow

Makes a payment using the Modulr API and client to a destination not represented by a Corda node. This flow executes an `InitiateModulrPayment` after constructing a `PaymentInitiationPayload` from a received `isoMessage`. It will then continue to poll for the results of the initiated payment and return the payment entity once it has been processed.

#### Parameters

* `isoMessage` - A XML message formatted in ISO20022.
* `clientDeduplicationId` - An ID submitted by the invoking client for the purposes of deduplication.

#### Return type

* `String` - This flow will return a `String` representing an ISO20022 status report message regarding the Modulr payment.

### ModulrPaymentInitiationFlow

This flow initiates a payment using the Modulr payment rail.  It will construct and execute an `InitiateModulrPayment` action using the provided `Destination` to create a Modulr-specific `PaymentInitiationPayload` as required input.

#### Parameters

* `paymentAmount` - The amount of the payment to be initiated, denominated in a specific currency.

> * `destination` - Information surrounds the destination (beneficiary) of the payment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `destination` - Information surrounding the destination (beneficiary) of the payment.
```

* `clientDeduplicationId` - An ID submitted by the invoking client for the purposes of deduplication.

#### Return type

* `PaymentResult<ModulrPaymentEntity>` - This flow will return a `PaymentResult` object with type argument `ModulrPaymentEntity`, representing the result of running a `ModulrPaymentPollingFlow` as a subflow.

#### Exceptions

* `PaymentExecutionException` - This exception will be thrown if the currency specified is not one of the two accepted currencies: `GBP` or `EUR`.
* `IdempotentActionExecutionException` - This exception will be thrown if the action triggered to initiate a Modulr payment is unsuccesful.
* `ModulrPaymentExecutionException` - This exception is thrown if no other exceptions are thrown and the initiated Modulr payment is still unsuccesful.

### ModulrISOGetAccountFlow

This flow gets the account balance for the specified account.

#### Parameters

> * `isoMessage` - A XML message formatted in ISO20022.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `isoMessage` - An XML message formatted in ISO20022.
```

#### Return type

> * `String` - This flow will return a XML `String` representing the balance of the specified account.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `String` - This flow will return an XML `String` representing the balance of the specified account.
```

Please follow these instructions carefully as this is an experimental web application, and you may encounter bugs:

### Set up the demo

To set up a demo payment with  UI:

1. Open the project in IntelliJ and then open the Gradle tab on the right side of the window.
2. Open a terminal and navigate to the root of `payments-cordapp`.
3. Run `./gradlew clean deployNodes` to deploy the two nodes.
4. Run `build/nodes/runnodes`.  The following nodes should have started `Party A` and `Party B`  If the nodes don't start properly, you can manually run the `jar` for each node, located within the `build` directory.
5. Open two new terminal tabs (make sure you are in the root of `payments-cordapp`).  Run `./gradlew runPartyA` in one tab and `./gradlew runPartyB` in the other.  These commands will start the server for the frontend.
6. In a new terminal window, navigate to `payments-cordap/modulr-rail-frontend`.
7. Run `npm install -l` to install all npm dependencies
8. Run `npm start` to start the frontend server.

### Use the demo console

The frontend currently allows you to do two things:

* Make a payment.

> * Get the status of a payment status.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Get the status of a payment.
```

You must log in as a Party to make a payment or get the status of a payment.  After logging in, you must make a payment before using `GetPayment`. The payment will take 1.9 minutes, almost exactly. The only supported currency is EUR.

To use the console to make a payment:

1. Open [http://localhost:4006](http://localhost:4006) to view it in the browser.

2. Log in as either Party A or Party B.

3. Make a payment with the provided fields.
The result of the payment will be seen: A XML payload representing a payment status report.

You can now use the value of `<MsgId>` (a field in the XML payload) to get the status of the payment with `GetPayment`.

## Creating and installing the CorDapp `.jar` file

> Once your dependencies are set correctly, you can build your CorDapp `.jar` file(s) using the Gradle `jar` task

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once your dependencies are set correctly, you can build your CorDapp `.jar` file(s) using the Gradle `jar` task:
```
